INSTALL NOTES FOR PLASTIC a plastic spiking network simulator for
MATLAB. 
2007 Guy Billings
-------------------------

DISCLAIMER:

PLEASE NOTE that this software is strictly ALPHA. It is entirely 
possible that it might do strange things to your computer if used outwith
the limited ways in which it has already been employed. It might cause computer crashes. 
It might make numerical errors. It might cause you to be abducted by aliens. NO LIABILITY
will be accepted on my behalf for any loss of reputation or mucous membrane precipitated by
the use of PLASTIC. Compilation of the code implies approval of these conditions.

The results of simluation should always (in my opinion) be backed up by some sort of
calculation. It is the only way to be sure that the output is sensible.

PREREQUISITES:

As far as I know this is what you will need to compile and use PLASTIC. This is
not exhaustive. If you run into problems due to your system configuration then contact me: 
g.o.billings@gmail.com

Ufortunately I unable to provide information about using PLASTIC
on Windows platforms at this time (I dont use them). However in theory it should work just 
as well on windows. If it does, and you want to write an entry for this file telling us about 
it then please let me know.

I have used PLASTIC on Mac OS X and on Linux. I have:

- A compiler that is correctly specified in mexopts.sh (see MATLAB documentation)
- The GNU Scientific library installed (plastic wont work without it)


To install PLASTIC v0.1:


1) Make your project directory:

mkdir foo

2) Put the PLASTIC archive into your directory

3) unzip all of the files in plastic.targz into the directory:

gzip -d plastic.tar.gz
tar -xvf plastic.tar

4) You should now have the files plastic.c, networkfuncs.c and ifnetwork.h in the
directory (as well as some others). Fire MATLAB up.

5) Make sure that MATLAB has /foo as its working directory

6) type:

mex plastic.c networkfuncs.c

This should produce a file named 'plastic.mexglx'. If it produces a file called 'plastic',
with no .mexglx extension then you will need to rename the file

mv plastic plastic.mexglx

7) Edit the configurations files (see README) and type 'ifnetwork'. PLASTIC should now run. If
you get the following error:

??? Invalid MEX-file
   '/amd/nfs/wyvern/disk/ptn138/s0344725/jobs/nearest/plastic.mexglx':
   /amd/nfs/wyvern/disk/ptn138/s0344725/jobs/nearest/plastic.mexglx:
   undefined symbol: gsl_rng_taus.

then plastic.mexglx has not linked correctly against the GNU GSL library. 

Try re-compiling with the following options:

mex plastic.c networkfuncs.c -lgsl -lgslcblas

